alt: Devblog's logo
Home
About Me
Contact



Hi, I'm Julia Walker.
Web Developer
Specialized in a11y and Core Web Vitals



Contact Me
About Me

alt: Julia Walker



Latest Blog Post

alt: Building microservices with Dropwizard, MongoDB & Docker
Database
Building microservices with Dropwizard, MongoDB & Docker

This NoSQL database oriented to documents (by documents like JSON) combines 
some of the features from relational databases, easy to use and the 
multi-platform is the best option for scale up and have fault tolerance, load balancing, map reduce, etc.

alt: Julia Walker
Jan 17, 2022
3 min


alt: Fast web page loading on a $20 feature phone
Web Performance
Fast web page loading on a $20 feature phone

Feature phones are affordable (under $20-25), low-end devices enabling 
100s of millions of users in developing countries to leverage the web. 
Think of them as a light version of a smart phone.

alt: Julia Walker
Dec 10, 2021
2 min


alt: Accessibility Tips for Web Developers
Accessibility
Accessibility Tips for Web Developers

It's awesome to build sites that are inclusive and accessible to everyone. 
There are at least six key areas of disability we can optimize for: visual, 
hearing, mobility, cognition, speech and neural. Many tools and 
resources can help here, even if you're totally new to web accessibility.

alt: Julia Walker
Nov 28, 2021
4 min


alt: Dynamically Securing Databases using Hashicorp Vault
Database
Dynamically Securing Databases using Hashicorp Vault

Nowadays, it's hard to profoundly talk about security in the IT industry, 
since it has to be considered on so many different levels: from securing code chunks, 
securing containers, up to securing complex infrastructures and defining 
strong authorization and authentication policies across the enterprise.

alt: Julia Walker
Nov 20, 2021
4 min


alt: Adaptive Loading - Improving Web Performance on low-end devices
Web Performance
Adaptive Loading - Improving Web Performance on low-end devices

Adaptive Loading: Do not just respond based on screen size, 
adapt based on actual device hardware. Any user can have a slow experience. 
In a world with widely varying device capabilities, a "one-size" fits all 
experience may not always work. Sites that delight users on high-end devices 
can be unusable on low-end ones, particularly on median mobile and desktop 
hardware and in emerging markets.

alt: Julia Walker
Nov 10, 2021
3 min


alt: Don't Develop Just for Yourself - A Developer's Checklist to Accessibility
Accessibility
Don't Develop Just for Yourself - A Developer's Checklist to Accessibility

We, as developers, tend to develop sites unconsciously for people like ourselves. 
If we don't actively pay attention, the sites are often accessible only for certain 
types of people: Sighted mouse-users, who have good fine motor skills and are good at using computers.

alt: Julia Walker
Oct 25, 2021
7 min


alt: Building a Restful CRUD API with Node JS, Express, and MongoDB
Database
Building a Restful CRUD API with Node JS, Express, and MongoDB

Application Programming Interface is the abbreviation for API. 
An API is a software interface that enables two apps to communicate with one another. 
In other words, an API is a messenger that sends your request to the provider and then returns the response to you.

alt: Julia Walker
Oct 15, 2021
5 min


alt: Monitoring Performance with the PageSpeed Insights API
Web Performance
Monitoring Performance with the PageSpeed Insights API

The PageSpeed Insights API provides free access to performance monitoring for 
web pages and returns data with suggestions for how to improve. The V5 API includes 
lab data from Lighthouse and real-world data from the Chrome User Experience Report (CrUX).

alt: Julia Walker
Oct 3, 2021
5 min


alt: The best web accessibility tools for developers in 2021
Accessibility
The best web accessibility tools for developers in 2021

The quality of the tools you use defines the speed with which you can diagnose and 
resolve problems. Each year the landscape changes dramatically in web technologies, 
and of late the tooling for accessibility is no exception.

alt: Julia Walker
Sep 13, 2021
7 min


alt: How to connect a React frontend with a NodeJS/Express backend
Database
How to connect a React frontend with a NodeJS/Express backend

The MERN (MongoDB, Express, React, NodeJS) stack is very popular for making full stack 
applications, utilizing Javascript for both the backend and frontend as well as a 
document-oriented or non relational database (MongoDB), meaning that it's structured like 
JSON rather than a large excel sheet like SQL databases are.

alt: Julia Walker
Sep 21, 2021
4 min


Load More



Topics

Database
Accessibility
Web Performance



Tags

#mongodb
#nodejs
#a11y
#mobility
#inclusion
#webperf
#optimize
#performance



Let's Talk

Do you want to learn more about how I can help your 
company overcome problems? Let us have a conversation.



Newsletter

Subscribe to our newsletter to be among the first 
to keep up with the latest updates.

placeholder: Email Address

Subscribe



alt: DevBlog's Logo
Learn about Web accessibility, Web performance, and Database management.

Quick Links

Advertise with us
About Us
Contact Us

Legal Stuff

Privacy Notice
Cookie Policy
Terms Of Use